In this episode we're exploring the largest abandoned building we've ever set foot in: this monumental steel works
However, not everything goes according to plan...
(loud banging noises)
This video is sponsored by Nord VPN. Start protecting yourself on the web at NordVPN.com/properpeople
Or use the code "properpeople" at checkout and save 77%
That's a lot of razor wire
Going in we had a feeling that this exploration was going to be extremely difficult to pull off
Our feelings were affirmed when we encountered this razor wire fence still over half a mile from the building
We squeezed under the fence having no idea what other physical obstacles we would face along the way
So we're getting pretty close now and this place has security that drives around the building, multiple vehicles
We don't know how to get in the building from your address
So we're gonna have to find a way in without being seen
And we've got a pretty wide area to cross also
This might be a little difficult
As we made our approach we ducked under cameras and hid behind anything we can find. Scanning for security the entire time...
We only had to search the perimeter of the building for a few minutes before finding a possible entrance: a downed razor-wire fence
You're on razor wire careful
'Did it cut you?'
No...I think....
Let's get in
Someone came here before us and opened it up
-This may not even go inside
-It's boarded over
Success. And opening into the main building we were in...
Watch her right here
Get down Get down!
He said something
I know
Wait-wait-wait-wait-wait
They're pulling away
(noise)
We don't know for sure if they're all gone
It's probably just a normal security check. They get out of the car and look at the windows. Or the openings...
No, I don't think they saw us coming in, right?
Or the cameras, yeah
We will just be dead silent
This place is amazing
And scary
Those pots are huge though. Go stand at the bottom of that pot
It's crazy those things have been moved around the ceiling in here probably carrying molten steel
The steelworks was constructed in the early 1960s and operated for nearly five decades
It shut down permanently shortly after the global recession of 2009
Since then, efforts to salvage metal and machinery resulted in the mill being slowly picked apart, but much of it remains intact
It's been spared of heavy
vandalism and graffiti as well, as a watchful eye has been kept in the building to protect the massive amount of scrapable metal that remains
inside...
That's wide open on that end
I love how the orange tarp there makes the color of the light the same color as molten steel. It's very fitting...
Ok we are now going to attempt going up these stairs as quietly as possible
Ooo, it's shaking
Unreal...
Even if you were looking at just this view...you would say this is a giant warehouse...and then you turn around
And you're on the second floor of it already
That thing looks crazy... (loud noise) What the fuck?....
Do you really think we're alone in here?
Those are some crazy fucking noises dude, they're so loud
This piece of machinery here is monstrous though
(random noises in background)
Or going down stairs...
(hammering continues)
It sounds like it's multiple directions it's coming from
Coming in and looking for us maybe
It all sounds like the roof though
It's getting crazy
-Or the way to be picking up outside...
-What?
-Or the weight can be picking up outside...
(loud thump)
Like...it sounds like there's people on the roof...
All that clicking started recently though
(loud noise)
(more loud noises)
I'm gonna look this way
(more loud hammering)
-Is that inside for sure?
-I don't know
What if it's scrappers?
Security's tight here though. We almost got caught
Or these cou-  I don't think there's srappers here. It would be too crazy for scrappers. Yeah, you can't get stuff out of here
(really loud banging)
There's people right there
We should get out of here then
-They're welding or cutting something.
-And probably sealing it up or....
...they're welding a door shut maybe...or welding bars over something...
-Maybe
-We can't get trapped in here
-No we can't
It's nuts they're doing construction here.....and we're just exploring
It's so crazy
(more loud banging)
Look at that coat up there...that was to protect against the molten steel
Alright, let's move to the other end of the building. Away from the people...
(more banging)
We might be getting sealed in here right now, but we'll worry about that later
As huge as the building is only part of the steelmaking process was carried out here
It lacks one of the most iconic and important elements of a steel mill: the blast furnace
Instead of producing molten pig iron on site it was delivered via specialised rail cars from a blast furnace several miles away
Then it would be refined into steel and turned into various products like slabs and coils
The blast furnace which supplied this facility is equally massive and is now also abandoned
A lot of monitors in here...
I don't like using the light in here...
'Cause it makes it kind of obvious...
Is this bright too?
Yeah
These are some big things on rails right here...
There's definitely something going on over there now
(loud noise)
Or over there...
Or right on top of us...
It's been an awesome job...
It must feel so cool to pick up those massive pots of steel
And just move 'em around with a lever...like they're nothing...
This room is the biggest one yet though, I think...
Wow
Holy cow...
While we were traveling all over Europe today's sponsor Nord VPN ensured that all of our internet activity was private
hotels cafes and other public networks can be unsecured and you never really know who is looking at your information
Nord VPN hide network activity before it even leaves your device using military-grade encryption
Whether it's malicious snooping, or just your ISP, Nord VPN anonymizes all traffic
So not even your ISP can throttle certain services
It was especially
convenient to be able to connect to United States servers while in Europe to be able to browse websites and access our accounts as if we were home
Sign up today with a 30 day money back guarantee using the link NordVPN.com/properpeople
Or use the code "properpeople" at checkout to get 77% off a three year plan
That's Nord VPN.com/properpeople
Coming up next week
"Is this thing on?"
They put the fence back up it's bolted up dude
Stay tuned...